Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Godfrey DiGiorgi.
Good morning.
I'm glad to see so many people
were able to get out of bed
on this third day of WWDC.
How's the show for you?
Doing good?
Fantastic.
OK, so this morning,
this is the Project Builder
In-Depth session,
where we're going to take you
into some of the more curious
details of Project Builder and
show you how to get things done.
And to that effect,
I'll introduce right away Mike Ferris,
the manager of the Project Builder
IDE development team.
Hello.
So we have a lot of stuff to cover today.
And so I'm going to go
ahead and dive right in.
Basically,
we're going to try to focus today
on some of the more advanced
features in Project Builder,
and we're going to concentrate
on features of the build system.
Project Builder does pretty automatic
support for most of your needs in
terms of the building of your project.
Every project,
every real project is probably going
to have a few things that fall a
little bit outside the scope of what
PBE handles really automatically.
And so what we want to do today
is talk about what features are
there in Project Builder to let
you do the kind of things that
we haven't possibly anticipated
or that aren't directly supported
and automatic in Project Builder.
So small projects may be very simple.
You create a project template.
It builds.
Everything works fine.
But large projects often
get more complicated.
And an IDE has to be able
to build your projects.
The project templates get you started.
You're going to add a
bunch of stuff to that.
We have to support you adding all that.
And we also have to be prepared
to let you get stuff done that we
don't even know about right now.
So there may be some new requirement
that comes up in six months.
And if you can't get Project Builder
to satisfy that requirement,
you're kind of stuck.
And when it comes to this
future extensibility,
the most important part is
the build system because
If Project Builder can't
build your project,
it doesn't matter what
other features it has.
So again, we're going to concentrate
on the build system today.
This is basically what we're
going to go through today.
We'll start with importing projects
and source code into Project Builder.
This will give us a project that
we can then use throughout the
rest of the session to show you
some of the more advanced features.
Once we get the project up and running,
we're going to talk a
little bit about targets,
and then start talking about some of
the specific features that go along
with targets in Project Builder.
Build styles,
which let you modify the way that
a particular target gets built.
So if you want to have a target
that builds your application,
but sometimes you'd like
to build it for debugging,
and sometimes you'd like
to build it for profiling,
to build it to put it on a
CD and ship to your customers,
you would use build styles to customize
the way that the target gets built.
Build phases are sort of the
basic building blocks of a target.
So a target is basically a
sequence of build phases.
And build phases do different things
to the files that they contain.
And we'll talk a little
bit about what that means.
And then at the end,
we're going to talk a little
bit about legacy targets.
And a legacy target is a special kind
of target in Project Builder which
basically circumvents Project Builder's
build system altogether.
And so one common use for a legacy target
would be if you have a project that's,
say, an open source project
and it has a make file,
you can set up a legacy target
that will invoke make to build
the project instead of using
Project Builder's built-in system.
All right, so let's get started on
importing our source code.
Basically,
you have a few different ways to
get started with Project Builder.
If you're starting a brand new project,
okay, great.
You just pick a project template
that's closest to whatever,
you know, you want to end up building.
And you start with that and you just
start adding your code and writing it.
And eventually you will be done.
But a lot of you all have
existing source code.
And so then the question becomes,
how do I get all this code I already
have into Project Builder and building?
And we provide a couple
different ways to do that.
We can directly import projects
from two different IDEs,
from Code Warrior and from the old
version of Project Builder called
Project Builder WO these days.
The third way to get source into
your project is that you can
just directly import whole trees,
folders full of source code,
into Project Builder in
a fairly automated way.
And we'll show a little bit of that, too.
So today what we're going to
do is we're going to start by
importing a Code Warrior project.
And to import a project
from Code Warrior,
you start in Code Warrior because
you're going to have to basically
export your project as an XML file,
and then Project Builder
can read in the XML file.
Before you export the project as XML,
it's important to set in your
project settings for Code Warrior the
little checkbox that says save
project entries as relative paths.
PB can import this stuff a lot better if
it has the relative paths to the files.
Thank you.
Once you import the project,
Project Builder will automatically
get from this XML the whole group
structure of the Code Warrior project.
It will bring over any targets that are
in the Code Warrior project and convert
them into Project Builder targets.
Once it's all in there,
you're almost certainly going to have
to do a little bit of hand tuning of the
resulting project before it is complete
and buildable in Project Builder.
So the other thing that we're
going to talk about a little
bit today is importing just
folders full of source code.
You can just drag a folder into
Project Builder from Finder,
and Project Builder will offer
to recursively import all
the stuff inside the folder.
When you're going to do that,
it's usually the best thing to
create the target that you want to
use to build that source code first,
because as Project Builder
is importing all this stuff,
it can automatically add it to a target.
So if the target already exists,
you can say, OK, add it to my new target.
And as it's processing all the files,
it'll figure out which build
phase each file belongs in and
put it in there automatically.
Once it's all in there,
you probably have some more
configuration to do on the
target before it actually builds.
So all right,
let's get started with the demo.
And to help me with the demo,
we'll bring Anders Bertelrud
onto the stage.
Anders is a member of
the Project Builder team.
So let's get started by importing
our Code Warrior project.
So the first thing we're going
to do is fire up Code Warrior and
open up this project.
This is a sample project that you
can get off of Apple's website.
It's provided by the developer,
tech services people,
and it's a simple little application.
It actually ships with both
a Code Warrior version and
a Project Builder version.
We've thrown away the Project Builder
version so that we can show
you how to do the importing.
So first of all,
let's go ahead and make sure
that the checkbox is checked
for the relative paths.
and once we know that that's all done,
we can go ahead and from the File menu,
just choose Export Project.
And this is going to save an XML file.
And we'll go ahead and put it in the
actual folder that the project is in.
So now we've generated this XML file.
Okay, now we're done with Code Warrior.
So let's go ahead and get out of
Code Warrior and go to Project Builder.
and we can choose Import Project.
And you get a choice of what
kind of project to import,
so we're going to import
a Code Warrior project.
And then we just have to
point it at this XML file.
Okay, and now we're done.
We can just go ahead and
let the import happen.
You'll notice that it imports
and we get all the groups,
so we can go ahead and check out and
make sure all the files got in there.
Okay.
Now actually I'm a little bit
lost on the demo script here,
so let me...
So now,
when Code Warrior builds this thing,
it's going to build a pef binary,
and so it links against
the CarbonLib libraries.
And we're going to build a Mac O binary,
so we're going to go ahead and
get rid of the libraries that
came over from Code Warrior.
And we'll add in the
frameworks we need in a moment.
But first, let's go ahead and look at
the target that got imported.
And you'll notice that in Code Warrior,
this target was called
something kind of funky,
so maybe we should rename it to be
something a little bit more reasonable.
And also,
if you go to the Build Settings tab,
the application that Code Warrior was
generating has this weird
PPC in parentheses after it.
We don't really need that,
so let's get rid of that.
And okay, now let's actually go back to
the files tab here and make
sure that we are linking against
the frameworks that we need.
So first, okay,
we have this Mac libraries group.
Let's go ahead and rename
that to be frameworks.
And then from the project menu,
you can choose Add Frameworks.
And we'll go ahead and
find the two that we need.
And this example uses
Carbon and QuickTime.
So we'll get the Carbon framework
and the QuickTime framework
and add them in there.
make sure that they get
added to the target.
And you'll notice that they
appear there in the Framework and
Libraries build phase of the target.
So for this example,
this is actually all we have to do.
Now we're ready to
actually build the thing.
So let's go ahead and build it and
make sure that it actually works.
Okay, there's Build.
Go ahead and run it just to make sure.
So this example,
all it does is it takes a
screenshot of the screen,
it lets you scale it,
and it actually lets you save it,
which we'll show a
little bit more of later.
In fact, when you save it,
it saves as a picked file.
and Interesting.
So-- - Can also-- - That was
not part of the demo script.
- If that happens to you,
you can actually kill
it with a stop button.
- Right, so.
As shipped from Apple, this thing saves
screenshots as picked files.
And we thought, well,
maybe it'd be nice to be
able to save as a TIFF file.
So in order to do that,
first we're going to need
some TIFF handling code.
So what I did is I went
out to SGI's website,
and I downloaded the free
TIFF library that Sam Leffler wrote,
which is sort of the standard
implementation of the TIFF library.
And what we're going to do now is
actually import that TIFF library
into this project so that we can
build a library that handles TIFF,
and then we'll make the
app link against it.
So again,
to get started when you're going to
import a bunch of raw source code,
it's best to create the
target that you want first.
So let's go ahead and
create a new target.
We're going to build
a static library here,
so we'll create a library target.
Let's call it libhiff.a.
Now when the target gets created,
why don't you go ahead and
close the Build tab up there
too so that we can see more.
It has no files in it,
but that's okay because we're
going to add the files right now.
Actually, before we add the files,
let's go ahead and look at the
Build Settings tab of the target.
and make sure that
everything is okay there.
So the thing is going
to be named libhift.a.
And actually, let's go ahead and set it
to install in /applications.
Not the library.
You know what?
You're right.
and Never mind.
So, did we skip that step?
Let's go back to the snapshot
target actually and do that.
So this illustrates that even if you
make a mistake when you first start,
you can always go back and change it.
So, all right, there we go.
We're gonna install the
application in /applications.
And, okay, so now let's go back to the
TIFF target so that we can see all
the files as they get imported.
And we'll switch to the File tab,
and then go to Finder.
and Let's group those together.
That's a good idea.
So we'll go ahead and put all the
source code for the snapshot stuff
into its own group so that it doesn't
get confused with the TIFF source code.
Now we have a library,
or we have the folder with all
the source code here in Finder,
and we can just drag that in.
You get a few options here.
Let's go ahead and have it copy that
source code into our project and
we'll tell it to recursively import
all the contents of that folder.
and we'll add it to the lib tiff
target that we just created.
So all that stuff comes in and
you can see that it's all been
added to the build phases here.
We have actually made some
minor modifications to the
source code we got from SGI.
The only thing that we've done is
we removed some files which are
used only for other platforms,
just to avoid having to get rid of
them once we've imported it here.
Now we have a target that
builds the TIFF library.
And let's go ahead and build it,
just to make sure.
So we make the active target be the
new TIFF target and go ahead and build.
Now this is actually going
to take a moment because this
library has a lot of files in it.
We'll see that it does
have some warnings.
If we were going to be
conscientious about things,
we might go in and fix those warnings,
but we'll let that be for now.
So, still building.
If you did want to fix the warnings,
of course,
you can just click on the lines and go
to the code and figure out what's wrong.
So the build's done?
The build is done.
So, okay, let's go ahead and
close up that build tab.
The last thing I'd like to show in
this segment of the demo is we'd like
for the Super Snapshot application
to link against this TIFF library.
So, to do that, we can go back to the
target for Super Snapshot.
If we go back to the file space again,
the products group is sort of special.
That has a reference in it to each
thing that is built by your project.
So every target you add will
typically cause something to be
added to that products group.
And you can see that we
have two things in there,
the application and the library that
we're building with the lib tiff target.
So one of the reasons why this
is available is so that you can
actually establish linkage between
the different target products.
So to link against the lib tiff target,
we can just set the active target
to be the snapshot target and then
click in that left hand column.
And that library will be added
to the snapshot target in the
frameworks and libraries phase.
And when we build the
snapshot target the next time,
it will link against the library.
Now one more thing that we actually
should do just to be clear.
And be complete.
Is in the targets tab,
we can establish a target
dependency so that every time
we build the snapshot target,
we'll make sure to first
build the tiff library.
So in case we didn't build
the tiff library first,
we can still link against it because
it will get built automatically.
So now we have a complete project here,
and we'll use this as the starting point
for the rest of the demos in the session.
But now, let's have Anders talk a
little bit about build styles.
Okay.
So let's go back to the slides.
Thank you, Mike.
So if we could have the
slides back on the screen,
please.
I'm going to move the mouse
pointer a little bit here.
Okay, so now we have a project that's
had the sources imported into it,
and so we can build it.
And what I'm going to talk about now
is a feature we call Build Styles.
And this is a feature that
we added to help you maintain
your project in the long run.
So what is build style?
Okay,
so the basics of a build style is that
it allows you to build a single target or
a set of targets in many different ways.
So if you have one logical
product that you want to build,
let's say one application,
but you might want to
build it for profiling,
for debugging,
you might want to try it out using a
hash table or a linked list algorithm,
whatever.
You wouldn't want to set up lots of
different targets and have all the
same source files in all those targets
because then as you maintain them,
if you add a source file,
you have to remember to add
it to each of those targets.
If you change the build setting,
that should not change
between the targets,
you've got to make the
change to all of them.
So a build style is just like a
filter that gets applied on top of
the target settings in build time.
So here are some examples of that.
You can enable, disable features,
experiment with different algorithms,
different optimization levels, etc.
Okay.
Okay, so how does this actually
affect the build?
Well, the basics is that a build style,
it changes the settings
of the target dynamically.
So it doesn't actually modify the target,
it just allows you to pick a
different set of settings to apply
on top of them at build time.
And a target's build settings,
like optimization level and what
flags to pass to the preprocessor,
that's just really a
dictionary of settings.
And so even if you check a checkbox
or choose a menu item from a
pop-up in the target editor,
what you're really doing is just
changing the contents of that dictionary.
So a build style just
selectively replaces or appends
to some of those entries.
So we see an example here,
debugging symbols equals no,
that would replace the setting
that was defined in the target.
If a build style has a plus equals,
that means that it actually
just appends to the value of
the setting in the target.
And one very useful thing is that one
build setting can refer to another one,
and that's a very useful thing.
So a build style can
refer to another one,
and using syntax that's fairly,
should be fairly familiar to those
who have experience with make.
So you can say A equals dollar B,
for example, right,
to refer to the value of
the build setting called B.
Now, obviously the build style can
refer to the target settings,
but also the target settings can
refer back up to the build styles.
So it's actually fairly flexible,
and it's possible to configure
your settings to do a variety
of interesting things.
The one thing that's not
permitted is circular reference.
So if you're using a building setting,
you're going to have to do a
lot of circular references,
right?
You can't define a build
setting in terms of itself,
because
So since we have these
different layers of settings,
the targets, the build styles,
we need a precedent for that.
So here's a summary of the precedents.
The very highest level are
the settings passed to the
PBX build command line build tool.
Now if you're running the IDE,
there are no PBX build settings,
so that part just goes away.
But this is also intuitive
to those using Make.
Anything you pass on the
command line to your invocation
will override anything else.
Anything that's not defined there,
the build system looks in the
build style that's in effect.
And if it's not there,
it goes on to the target settings, etc.
So by using this precedence,
you can set up some really interesting
configurations that let you just
switch the build style and give
very interesting behavior changes.
And, okay, great.
So now we've configured the build styles,
but how do we actually use them?
Well, currently the IDE has a pop-up that
you can put in your toolbar using
the customized toolbar command.
And that's a pop-up that's very
similar to the target selection pop-up,
the one that chooses the active target.
This one sets the active build style,
and the IDE currently always
has one build style active.
So you can pick any one you want,
say development or deployment,
and just when you click on the hammer,
that's the build style that gets used.
You saw that in the demo.
Actually, sorry,
you saw that for the target,
but it works the same
way for the build style.
You'll see that in the next demo.
Now, the PBX build command line tool is a
little bit more flexible than that.
If you don't specify any build style,
then none of the build
styles have any effect,
and the settings defined in the
target are the ones that get used.
But as we see in the second example here,
you can build for install, for example,
and you can specify by name
the deployment build style.
Now, you can call that anything you want.
So you could add as many of
the build styles that you want.
And the last example here just
shows that the active build
style that was set in the target,
in the project, is a per user setting.
And so you have access to that from
the command line if you use PBX build.
So you can just say, the last one says,
use whatever build style was active
in the IDE when I edited this project.
Can be handy.
And by default,
new projects get two build
styles just to start you off.
There's deployment and the
development build styles.
And so development is by default set up
to enable debugging symbols and to let
you basically have a debuggable build.
The deployment one is when you want
to build it for putting on a CD,
for example.
So that would turn off debugging symbols,
have a higher optimization, et cetera.
But you can add any number of
build styles to your project.
So you could just define
anything you want to.
We're going to see in the demo
definition of preprocessor macros.
Alright,
so I'd like to invite Christian Molick
up onto the stage and we're
going to do a little demo.
Hopefully I'll remember the script.
Okay, great.
So first of all,
what we're going to do is we're going
to configure the targets that we have,
the two targets,
Super Snapshot and LibTIF,
to turn off debugging symbols
because we want the default case
to be built for CD in this case.
So Christian's going to open up
both of the targets here and we
just uncheck the generate debug
symbols checkbox for each of those.
So now if we build without
any build style at all,
then we're just going to
build for putting on a CD.
So now in order to be able to
set the active build style,
we actually want to
customize the toolbar here.
So we want to go ahead and do that.
Just go ahead and control click on that,
say Customize Toolbar,
and just drag up the Build Style.
Active Build Style pop-up,
just drop it in there, and click Done.
We don't put it in there by
default because we want to keep the
UI and the concepts a little bit
simple when you first start out.
So, it says no Build Style since
we don't have any defined yet,
so let's define some Build Styles.
So, let's go ahead and go down to, yeah,
Build Styles and create
a new Build Style.
Let's call this Development.
and if we click on that,
the development build style,
we can edit it.
Now right now we don't have any
graphical UI for any of the settings.
We're planning on adding that,
but this gives you control
over the exact dictionary of
settings that are available.
Let's go ahead and add one that's
called Debugging Underbar Symbols.
And so you just click in there and
hit return and that adds a new one.
and you just tab between the fields.
So debugging symbols,
let's set that to yes,
because we're doing development.
And let's add another one.
And this one is going
to be other C flags,
which is just a bucket where
we can put any other C flag we
want to pass to the compiler.
Actually, C flags.
Other C flags.
Yeah.
Yeah, so just double click on that.
Right.
I got it.
Others and bugs.
And we can set the value to be -D Debug.
So this is just going to define
the debug preprocessor macro.
So now if we click on
the equals sign there,
you'll see it turn into a plus equals.
Maybe you don't see that,
but it's a little bit small,
but you see that when you
sit in front of the screen.
And what that means is we're just going
to append the value to the end of the
value that was defined by the target.
Okay, great.
So now we have the development
build style set up.
Let's go ahead and create
a deployment build style.
And to start off,
we're just going to select
all these settings here.
Just select them both,
and we're just going to copy them.
So you can actually copy and
paste these settings between
the different build styles.
Let's go ahead and create a new
build style called deployment.
Actually, I take that back.
Let's call that Save as TIFF because
we imported the libTIFF library.
And so one of the things we want
to demonstrate here is defining a
preprocessor macro that causes the
source code to use the TIFF library.
I've actually modified this
Super Snapshot project to do that.
So let's go ahead and paste in the
settings from the other build style.
And all we want to do now is just
add to the value of other C flags,
dash capital D, save as tiff.
Okay, so now we have defined
our two build styles.
We can see that they showed up in
the pop-up menu up in the toolbar.
So we can set which one is active.
So let's go ahead and set the
development one to be active.
Go ahead and go to the files menu or
files tab and click on supersnapchat.c.
So this is the file in which
we've added some pound if defs
for save as tiff and for debug.
So debug causes it to print
out some of the files.
Save as tiff causes it to use the
tiff library when you choose save.
Let's go ahead and just save this file,
make sure it's dirty, and hit build.
So now we're building using the
development build styles so the debug
preprocessor macro is in effect.
And so if you run this,
and if we choose Save,
then we should see some debug output.
So just go ahead and save that.
And we see that it's writing a pic file.
OK, great.
So let's quit that.
And then we're going to go ahead and
choose the other active-- the other
build style from the pop-up menu.
So now we want to build this using the
algorithm that uses the lib tiff library.
So we just go ahead and build again.
Okay.
So it looks like this machine is
not configured exactly the way
the other one was configured.
Okay, we can either spend a lot of
time and install libraries here,
or we can say, trust us.
So you see the, if not defined,
save as TIFF there.
What's happening is that we're
apparently using a quick drop call
that is not in the public headers.
That's my fault.
So the point is, though,
that because we got this error this time,
you're seeing that the different
build styles are in effect.
And in fact... Right?
Which was the point of the demo.
So, successful demo.
OK, at this point,
I'd like to invite Christian to talk
some more about the build phases.
Here you go, Christian.
Which is another feature
of the build system.
Can I have slides, please?
So what I'd like to talk to you a
bit is about how Project Builder
organizes builds of individual targets
into build phases to make it easy
to see and modify what's actually
going to happen during a build.
So they seem a little
bit complicated at first.
They're pretty simple actually,
though some fairly difficult and
dangerous things can be done with them.
Basic idea is that a target is
built in a series of phases that
do happen one after the other.
New phases can be added or deleted
to tune exactly what's gonna
happen during a project build.
New files,
when they're added to a project,
to a target, get added to the correct
phase automatically.
So phases don't, you don't need to be
conscious of them normally.
You can just see your files
where you expect them and if you
need to tune a build process,
you can go and touch
them in their phases.
So files can be added to or
removed from individual phases,
moved between phases,
or within a phase to different locations.
So the files will be processed in
the order they appear in that phase,
as well as the phases
themselves happening in order.
So standard build phases that you see
in target templates or in distributed
examples are a headers build phase,
which is used for copying
headers that are part of a
distributed project into place.
Currently,
some extra work is done during headers
build phase to make sure that those
headers are available to other targets
that you might be building or other
targets in other projects that you
might be building simultaneously.
Next is the bundle resources phase.
In this phase,
all of your bundle resource
files get copied into their
appropriate localized locations,
as well as files that Project Builder
is responsible for generating,
such as the Info.plist property
settings file and the package
info file that goes in the bundle,
all get generated and copied
into place during this phase.
During the sources phase is where
the bulk of the work happens.
This is where new sources are derived
from given source derivation and all
your sources that are already present
and the derived sources actually
get compiled and put in order.
Then during the Java Archive phase,
a hierarchy is constructed,
which has all of your compiled
class files as well as extra
resources that need to be in any
Java archives that get constructed.
Following that is a Frameworks
and Libraries phase.
This is where the libraries
that actually get linked to by a
product actually are all listed,
and this phase actually
builds the final executable.
Finally, the Resource Manager phase will
actually go and add resource
manager resources to a product,
potentially on a resource fork.
So that's a good basis to start with,
but it's often not enough.
There are a bunch of custom phases
that can allow you to tune the
process in a bunch of different ways,
the most basic being
the copy files phase.
This allows you to copy special
product contents like readmes
and other such into a product.
It also is the primary model that
we use for product inclusion.
So the way that a product
that includes another product,
such as an application that has plug-ins,
works is that you add a copy files
phase that refers to that product
reference in the product section and
brings it into the actual built product.
Finally, there's the script phase.
This is the most general mechanism where,
by default, shell is run,
but really any utility
can be run during a build.
So this can be used, by default,
shell is invoked, but C-Shell, Perl,
AppleScript can all be used to
do various things during a build.
So those are build phases.
It might be interesting
to actually see these.
And if I can get Dave Ewing to help me
work a little more with this project.
So the first thing that I'd like
to do is show you the actual phases
that are in this downloaded example.
You could open up the snapshot target
and go to the files and build phases tab.
So there they all are.
One thing about this is
we're not building this with
a bunch of other targets,
and the header isn't all that
interesting for the application itself.
So let's try just deleting
that phase to clarify what's
happening during the build.
That's better.
So, more important is getting
extra stuff into the build.
Simple thing to start
with first is adding this,
a readme to this application,
and I think it actually came with
one that we could add to the project.
- Okay, well.
- Level up, oh, there it is.
And yeah, we're gonna add this to
no target to begin with.
So what we want is a copy
files phase added to this.
Easiest thing to do would be to
select the last phase and add a copy
files phase from the project menu.
Then drag that readme
into the file section.
And we'd like to have
this happen every time,
so copy when installing isn't necessary.
And that should go into the
wrapper of the application.
So if someone actually looks
into this built application,
the first thing they'll see, hopefully,
is this readme.
Okay,
so there's a simple copy files phase.
Let's try something a
little bit trickier.
What might be interesting for this
example is to actually distribute
this custom TIFF library that
we built so maybe someone else
can get at saving his TIFF.
So let's make another copy files phase.
and drag the lib tiff
product reference into it.
This isn't really useful to us when we're
just doing normal development builds,
so we're gonna do this
only when installing,
and we're gonna give this
an absolute location.
Because it's a library,
we're gonna put it in user local lib,
standard library distribution place.
For a technical issue,
this means we're building a route
for distribution where we're gonna
have user local lib and slash
applications rather than just the
drag and drop install application.
Presumably because we're
including the library,
it's for developers anyway.
And actually, it would be nice to have
the readme in any case,
even if a build fails
partway along the way.
So why don't you drag that phase
to be the first thing that happens?
So even if the
compilations don't go well,
we're going to have a readme
in whatever we end up with.
So copy files phases are one thing,
but more interesting are these script
phases that are completely general.
So let's add one to the
end of the... Actually,
it's added to the end.
Thank you.
We've actually got a few scripts
ready to go and some stickies,
I think.
The first one we're going to
put on is an accumulating log,
which will put in an entry for
any given build that we do,
saying exactly what got
build and I believe what
style was used for the build.
This is going to use shell for this.
And it's going to run with every build.
Now let's try something a
little bit trickier even still.
Add another shell script phase.
And this one, what we're going to do is,
on the case of install builds,
when we're doing final
builds for distribution,
what we'd like to do is see them
in the finder so that we can go
and immediately check them out and
see what the user would see just
to make sure that they're right.
So this is going to use shell to
invoke an Apple script that will
raise the install builds location
in the finder for us so that we
can go and take a look at this.
And because this is really only
interesting when we're doing full builds,
we're going to make this
happen only when installing.
So there's a bunch of custom stuff.
Let's do a normal build in the
PBUI of the application target
Let's change our build style.
Oh, right.
Yeah, you're going to have to change
the build style that works.
Now if we can show that in the finder.
So what are we looking for?
Let's see.
There they are.
Oh, there's the build log.
Oh!
So we created a build log.
We did get a build log.
Interesting.
That's a start.
Perhaps more interesting would
be to actually take a look
at a final deployment build,
which will invoke all
of these build phases.
So if you could bring
up the terminal window.
Ooh, and crank up the font.
Oh, man.
Big enough?
Bigger?
There we go.
All right, enough.
- And I believe that's
in the project directory,
so if you do a pbx build install
with dstroot set to slash install,
slash build, whichever exists.
So this will do a deployment build
in that slash install location.
You can see those build phases sort of
happening quickly in the background.
And the finder did raise
with a copy of our route.
Inside the applications folder,
you should see the
actual built application.
And if you use Control-Click
to look inside that wrapper,
we should be able to see that.
Read me.
There it is.
and David Farnes.
With that,
I'm going to turn this over to Dave,
who's going to show us a bit
about how to do legacy targets.
Back to the slides.
OK, well you might wonder why the
Java debugger engineer is talking
about legacy targets and you know what,
I don't really know.
But it turns out it's kind of fun
because I get to show you how to
package your final application
the way we want you to package the
application and that's in a disk image.
Okay, Legacy Target.
Well, the basics of a Legacy Target are
that they are used to invoke
custom command line tools.
As Mike said earlier in the talk,
the most common thing you
would do probably is use it to
call out to make or something,
maybe for an open source project.
But there's lots of other
things you can do with it.
There's lots of other
build tools out there.
being one of them.
Well, you can also use them to create,
to generate source files that
are used in other targets,
or to do some pre or post
processing on targets.
and of course you can run anything
from a legacy makefile target,
so to do just about anything.
An example of some of those other
things you might want to do well,
package disk images.
That's what we're going
to do in this demo.
You can also do build statistics,
you know,
log statistics at the end of builds.
Or send out notifications after a build,
like sending an email
or something like that.
Let's see, and with that, actually,
we're going to bring Mike back
up here and just show this.
Okay, so we have the demo machine.
Great.
Well, the first thing we're going to do
is bring up the shell script that
we built up for this that does
the creation of the disk image.
Go ahead and find that out in the
finder and bring it into the target.
We don't need to add it to any target.
Bring it into the project,
but don't add it to a target.
If you take a quick look at that.
Why don't you close up the panel.
No?
So I don't want to go
into detail in here.
There's a few commands that
are sort of interesting.
You can find documentation
on the system for,
with man, I believe.
Man pages.
But HDI Util and HDID.
And there's also makefs underscore
HFS that actually creates the
HFS volume inside of the disk image.
There's an article on how to do
a lot of this stuff on Stepwise,
which I recommend.
OK, so let's go ahead and
create a new target,
a legacy makefile target.
and we'll give it a nice name
so that we know what it is.
And let's go ahead and
put this at the top.
This is actually going to be the main
target for the project because it does
the final processing that's involved
in building this little demo here.
And go ahead and make the
other targets depend on it.
So.
So now when we actually
build that target,
it'll make sure all the other
targets are built first.
Okay, well now let's do the real work.
Actually,
the real work was in the shell script.
So let's change the build tool
here to actually be bin SH so
that it does run a shell script.
And we'll go over to our stickies
and drag in the command line.
Well, we're copying and pasting it.
And this command line,
all it does is it's creating
an 8 megabyte disk image.
I was a little lazy
writing the shell script,
so I didn't actually compute
how much space it would take.
And it's going to name the
disk image snapshot and copy
in the application itself.
So I think that's it.
Shall we build it?
Let's build it.
You'll see down here that it's actually
echoing some stuff about what it's
doing to create this disk image.
Copy files.
It actually compresses
the disk image too,
so you don't really have to worry about
creating a disk image that's too large.
Because the final disk
image will be quite small.
So we'll go actually to
the project directory.
Because that's where we
decided to put the disk image.
And there should be snapshot.dmd.
And double click on it.
and it's mounting in disk copy.
No surprises there.
And look, there we have a disk image and
an application inside it that
you can just launch and run.
And with that, back to Mike.
OK.
So let's have the slides
back for a moment here.
All right,
so we've covered a few things today.
And I just want to sum up.
Basically,
Project Builder provides a number of
ways to import code into Project Builder
so that you can begin using it.
If you already have an existing
project in Code Warrior or
in the old Project Builder,
you can bring those in directly.
And as we saw,
it's pretty easy just to import
a whole lot of source code
that you got from wherever.
You know, the build system,
we've tried to make it flexible.
We've tried to give you all ways to
customize the build process to do things
that we didn't necessarily anticipate
and to give you basically ways to solve
problems that we haven't solved yet.
Now, this is not to say that
we're not planning on solving
a lot of these problems.
Eventually,
it'd be nice if you didn't have
to write some gnarly shell script
and set up all this legacy target
just to build a disk image,
and I think we can expect to
see Project Builder do a lot of
these things more automatically.
The point is that until we
get around to doing this,
you're not totally stuck.
So, that was the main point
of the session today.
And at this point,
I'll ask Godfrey to come back on stage.
And we'll go through a couple of these.
These info slides and have a little Q&A.
Thank you, Mike.
Pretty amazing stuff.
I think we're going to get a lot of use
out of Project Builder with you guys.
Can we have the house lights up?
We're going to start a little Q&A session
while I talk over the information slides.
These are our information addresses.
The top one is our tools page.
We list all MacOSX tools
available there.
We have a special page
for Project Builder.
Project Builder pages include updates.
So as new things happen,
as new details occur,
as press events and other
things come to the public,
we put them onto that page.
We also have a series of
mailing lists that we host.
The URL there is the
master mailing list page.
And the three Project Builder users,
Cocoa Developer and Carbon Developer,
are mailing lists that are in
heavy use by our community.
Can we have all the
Q&A presenters up on stage,
please?
This is the roadmap for sessions
through the rest of the week.
Starting at 10:30,
we're talking about Java development
tools over in room A1.
And tomorrow,
we do compiler technologies and
Apple performances tools in this room.
I hope to see a lot of you there again.
And then through the week,
debugging on MacOSX Friday morning,
very important.
Our C++ frameworks group and
our feedback forum on Friday.
Hope to see a lot of you there.
And if you need to contact
me or the engineering team,
here's two addresses.
My address, I'm the technology manager
for development tools.
Always interested to hear your feedback,
always interested to
hear what your needs are,
what your product needs might be
that need interaction with the team.
And the MacOSX tools feedback
mailing list is a place where you
can send product enhancement ideas,
general questions that you want to
go to the engineering team itself.